{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}
{\f48\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f52\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f53\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f54\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid146130\rsid660214\rsid2185749\rsid3747676\rsid3886407\rsid3960964\rsid9314721\rsid9658105\rsid11215267\rsid11552158\rsid13960613\rsid15599611}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.0000;}{\info
{\operator Craig.Bisgeier}{\creatim\yr2010\mo12\dy17\hr15\min27}{\revtim\yr2010\mo12\dy17\hr17\min11}{\version6}{\edmins104}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1558}{\nofchars8883}{\nofcharsws10421}{\vern24611}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas
.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\rsidroot11215267 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4266367\charrsid11215267 Data Entry and Maintenance in Here to There
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4266367 
\par Car forwarding is a data-driven process - it's all based on information in real life and on your model railroad.  During the golden age or railroading for every employee out on the road there were ten clerical employees in an office building making sure t
hat debts were collected, bills were paid and everything got where it was supposed to go.  
\par 
\par While you can add information to the program in any order you like, You can do it most efficiently by working from the top down.  Start with the basic information a
bout your railroad, the towns you model on your layout, the sidings in those towns, etc. If you do it this way you'll spend very little time later backtracking and adding data you missed the first time through.  You'll find the more specific information o
ften builds on data you entered in previous steps, so try not to skip around.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid4266367\charrsid11215267 My Railroad
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4266367 
\par This is the place to begin entering your data.
\par 
\par Railroad Name
\par Enter the name of your railroad here - for instance, "Union Pacific".  This field cannot be left blank.
\par 
\par Reporting Marks
\par Enter your railroad's reporting marks here.  These are the letters you would see on the side of a boxcar - for instance, "UP".  This field cannot be left blank.
\par 
\par Nickname or Slogan
\par If your railroad has a nickname or slogan, enter it here.  For instance, "Be Specific - Ship Union Pacific".
\par 
\par Prototype or Freelanced
\par Select either prototype or freelanced. This affects whether the program can expect to find data in the AAR Tables on your railroad or not.
\par 
\par Era
\par Enter the date or year you model on your railroad.  This affects the format of the printed waybills.
\par 
\par Operating Session
\par You can put down the date of your next operating session here.  If no date is entered the date you start creating new session data will be recorded here.
\par 
\par Paperwork Date
\par Put down the date that should appear on the printed paperwork the program here.  If no date is entered the date the paperwork is printed out will be used.
\par 
\par Click the OK button to save the data.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid11215267\charrsid11215267 Divisions
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11215267 
\par Every railroad is divided up into Divisions.  In the early days, a division was about 100 miles long, which was about as far as a locomotive could go on a load of wood or coal.  Each Division usually had its own yard (usually at one end) 
for the switching of cars, and also had a roundhouse and other services to maintain the equipment assigned to the division.  In later years 
Divisions sometimes got a little longer, but even once diesels came around they still existed.  Some yards and servicing facilities might have closed, but the railroad is still defined by its Divisions.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid13960613 Here to There uses your railroad\rquote s Divisions to help locate and route traffic from one place to another.  In the Maintain Divisions window, copy down the divisions yo
u actually model on your layout.  Later you\rquote ll assign the towns on your layout to one Division or another.  You can also include other un-modeled divisions 
of your railroad or Divisions of adjacent railroads if you want to, which may help later when trying to route cars.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3960964   If your railroad includes a Junction with another railroad,
 branch line or another division, be sure to include that as well.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11215267 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid13960613 
\par You will also need to put in the Division Points, or the places where the Divisions connect to one another, for each division
.  However, unless you have already put in the Towns in the Maintain Towns window, you will probably need to wait and come back to add the division points when that is done.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11552158 Division Number}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid13960613 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11552158 A number that identifies the division.  Must be unique.
\par 
\par Division Name
\par The Working name of the division.  Must be unique.
\par 
\par Division End Point East
\par The Name of the Town or Station where the current division ends to the East or North.  Must be selected from the drop-down list. If you have not entered Town information yet, skip this part until after the towns are entered.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11215267 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11552158 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11552158 Division End Point West
\par The Name of the Town or Station where the current division ends to the West or South.  Must be selected from the drop-down list. If you have not entered Town information yet, skip this part until after the towns are entered.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid11552158 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid4266367\charrsid11215267 Towns
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4266367 
\par After saving your My Railroad Data, open the Maintain 
Towns window.  Put in the information about the cities and towns on your railroad here.  You can include cities and towns on the unmodeled parts of your railroad too, as well as towns on other railroads in the area.  Later you'll put in more specific data
 about the modeled towns.
\par 
\par To enter new towns:
\par Click the New button.  The edit fields above the grid will be enabled and you can type information into them or select values from a list.  When all data values are entered, click the Save button to write the record to the database.
\par 
\par If you wish to refresh the edit fields click the Reset button, this will clear the values in the edit fields set the editor back to Browse mode.  
\par 
\par To Edit an existing record, select it from the grid by clicking on it, then click th
e Edit button at the top.  The values from the record will be loaded into the edit fields, and you can make changes to them.  Save the record by clicking the Save button, or abandon the changes by clicking the Reset button.
\par 
\par To Delete and existing record, 
select it from the grid by clicking on it, then click the Delete button.  If there are dependent records in other areas that reference the selected town (Siding, Industry, Train, Train Work) you will not be allowed to delete the town until the dependent r
ecords are deleted or changed so they don't reference the selected town.
\par 
\par The edit fields on the window are as follows:
\par 
\par Town Name 
\par The name of the town.  Must be a unique value.
\par 
\par ID # 
\par The Town's ID number. Must be a unique value.
\par 
\par State
\par The State the town is located in.
\par 
\par Call Sign
\par A one-, two- or three-letter code that identifies the town.  Required.  Must be a unique value.
\par In the days of telegraph communication these call signs were assigned to towns to quickly identify them.  The call signs survive into the present day and are used even by modern railroads.  Here to There uses them for many purposes including some behind t
he scenes recordskeeping, so every town needs to have a unique call sign.  
\par 
\par Freight Hub?
\par Yes or No - Indicates if local freight trains operate out of this town.  If there is a freight yard here, probably yes, if not then no.
\par 
\par Served By
\par The town name of the freight hub closest to the current town.  May be the same as the current town name.  This is the place local trains will work out of to serve the current town.  Only one selection is allowed.
\par 
\par Division
\par The name of the railroad division the town is located on.  
\par 
\par It may be necessary to enter all the town names first and then make a second pass to update the Served By field for each town, because the selections come from the same data group (Towns).  If the town names aren't there yet you can't choose them a
s Served Bys!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid15599611   If it hasn\rquote t been done already, be sure to go back and finish adding the Division End Points to your Divisions after completing Town data entry.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4266367 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid15599611\charrsid2185749 Sidings}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid4266367\charrsid2185749 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid15599611 
\par On every railroad there are sidings and spurs where customers and railroad buildings are located that freight moves in and out of.  Here to There needs to know about every sidin
g and spur on your layout that will be served with freight or passenger traffic.  Do NOT include passing sidings which do not have any industries located along them where cars can be spotted}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9658105 
.  Later when you define the industries that ship and receive freight on your railroad, you will place them on a siding to locate them.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid15599611 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9658105 
\par Siding Name
\par The name of the siding.  Must be unique.
\par 
\par Siding Number
\par A number that identifies the siding.  Must be unique.
\par 
\par Railroad
\par The railroad that serves the siding.
\par 
\par Town 
\par The town the siding is located in.
\par 
\par Car Limit
\par This value affects the number of cars that can be assigned in and out of the siding during a session.  Start with the actual number of spots the siding can serve (two at the freight house, three at the coal company, one at the furniture company \endash 
 2+3+1=6).  Later you may wish to adjust this number up or down to change the number of cars that can be assigned in a session.
\par 
\par Faces
\par This indicates which way the points on the turnout leading to the siding face, which may affect which trains can service that siding during a session.  The 
possible answers are N (North or East), S (South or West), B (Both) or A (Not Applicable).  Select the one that represents }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid2185749 the best answer.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\fs20\insrsid9658105 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid3747676\charrsid9314721 Commodity and Industry data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 
\par After defining your layout geographically in to Here to There, you may begin to add Commodity and Industry data to give your trains places to drop off or pick up cars.  
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid3747676\charrsid9314721 Commodity Data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 
\par Here to There comes with a number of potential commodities built-in that you can use.  However, chances are you\rquote ll have some specialized commodities you\rquote ll want to include, and you\rquote 
ll probably want to edit the built-in commodities to more accurately reflect what\rquote s going on in your modeling era.  For instance, a modern layout probably would not be shipping a lot of typewriters}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\fs20\insrsid9314721  or steam engine cylinders}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 , and a turn of the century railroad won\rquote t be shipping any automobiles}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721  or c
omputers}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 .  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 You can easily change the listing of what\rquote s available for use by }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721 checking the Use? Flag on each record on or off.  
Only those commodities you leave checked On will show up In windows when assigning commodities to industries.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3747676 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721 
\par Use?
\par Check this value if you want the commodity named to appear in selection lists in other places, off if you want to hide it.
\par 
\par Commodity Name
\par The name of the commodity.  Must be unique.
\par 
\par Priority
\par Helps decide how the load should be handled.  Choices are High (H), Medium (M) and Low (L).  Examples of high priority loads are frozen goods, livestock, etc.  Low priority loads would be lumber or coal.
\par 
\par Car Type 1, 2, 3
\par The type(s) of cars the commodity may be carried in / on.  Some loads, like Acids, can only be carried in one type of car (a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid146130 t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721 
ank car).  Others like pipe are more versatile and can be loaded into gondolas, on flatcars or even into boxcars.  For each commodity, select up to three car types the load can be carried in from }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\fs20\insrsid3886407 most to least likely.  Leave any unwanted selections blank.  At least one car type must be selected.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9314721 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3886407 
\par Notes
\par Include any notes that should appear on the waybill here.  For instance, an Acid load might include the note \'93Corrosive\'94.  This note will be printed on the waybill under special instructions.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f1\fs20\insrsid146130\charrsid660214 Industry Data
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid146130 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3886407  
\par }}